README.md, before:

# Analyzing Player Performance of MLB Silver Slugger Award Finalists

This project is a submission to the [Connecticut Sports Analytics Symposium's (CSAS) 2025 Data Challenge](https://statds.org/events/csas2025/challenge.html), open to any project that uses 2024 Statcast data to analyze some aspect of MLB at-bats during the 2024 season.

I decided to focus on comparing batting trends of the three National League shortstop finalists for the 2024 Silver Slugger Award (winner Francisco Lindor and finalists Elly De La Cruz and Willy Adames), performing an exploratory data analysis on seen pitch distributions and pitch strike zone locations, expected batting average and slugging percentage, and exit velocity and launch angles, determining that of the three finalists, Lindor seemed to see the lowest amount of variance in the pitches he saw and therefore had the greatest plate power. However, it was concluded that, while Lindor did in fact have the highest batting statistics, the launch angle and exit velocity may not be that indicative of a batter's offensive production.

(I was unable to upload the .csv file with the 2024 MLB batting data because of how large the dataset is, but [here](https://yaleedu-my.sharepoint.com/personal/brian_macdonald_yale_edu/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fbrian%5Fmacdonald%5Fyale%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2Fservice%2FCSAS%2F2025%2D04%2D11%20%2D%20CSAS%20at%20Yale%2Fdata%2Echallenge%2Fdata&ga=1) is a link to the data. I used the file 'statcast_pitch_swing_data_20240402_20241030_with_arm_angle.csv,' which includes batting data for the entire 2024 MLB season and eliminates redundant columns found in the earlier version of the dataset.)

Commit message:

Revise analysis conclusion in README
Updated the analysis conclusion to emphasize the importance of consistency in plate discipline and pitch-type recognition over raw metrics.

README.md, after:

# Analyzing Player Performance of MLB Silver Slugger Award Finalists

This project is a submission to the [Connecticut Sports Analytics Symposium's (CSAS) 2025 Data Challenge](https://statds.org/events/csas2025/challenge.html), open to any project that uses 2024 Statcast data to analyze some aspect of MLB at-bats during the 2024 season.

I decided to focus on comparing batting trends of the three National League shortstop finalists for the 2024 Silver Slugger Award (winner Francisco Lindor and finalists Elly De La Cruz and Willy Adames), performing an exploratory data analysis on seen pitch distributions and pitch strike zone locations, expected batting average and slugging percentage, and exit velocity and launch angles, determining that of the three finalists, Lindor seemed to see the lowest amount of variance in the pitches he saw and therefore had the greatest plate power. The analysis suggested that while raw physical metrics (exit velocity or launch angle) are critical, consistency in plate discipline and pitch-type recognition were more highly correlated with Silver Slugger outcomes in this specific cohort.

(I was unable to upload the .csv file with the 2024 MLB batting data because of how large the dataset is, but [here](https://yaleedu-my.sharepoint.com/personal/brian_macdonald_yale_edu/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fbrian%5Fmacdonald%5Fyale%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2Fservice%2FCSAS%2F2025%2D04%2D11%20%2D%20CSAS%20at%20Yale%2Fdata%2Echallenge%2Fdata&ga=1) is a link to the data. I used the file 'statcast_pitch_swing_data_20240402_20241030_with_arm_angle.csv,' which includes batting data for the entire 2024 MLB season and eliminates redundant columns found in the earlier version of the dataset.)
